# 5. Administration Guide

Some integration development and administration tasks can only be performed by ActiveProspect, Inc. personnel. These include cutting releases, adding new integrations to the platform, and deployments.

_Note: although this guide is currently published publicly, if you're outside the ActiveProspect organization, the information in this section isn't of use to you, and can be ignored._

## Logging in to npm

 When correctly logged in, you should get `activeprospect` as the response when you run `npm whoami`. You should also be able to successfully run, e.g., `npm install @activeprospect/leadconduit-briteverify`.

 To log in, run `npm adduser`, and answer the prompts:

 ```
 Username: activeprospect
 Password: _ask a teammate_
 Email: (this IS public) dev@activeprospect.com
 ```

## Setting up Travis CI for a new integration

When adding a brand-new integration, there is a one-time setup to do to configure Travis to run on each commit:

1. go to the [ActiveProspect profile](https://travis-ci.com/profile/activeprospect)
2. find the new github repo on the list (you may need to click the "sync account" button)
3. click the repository switch to turn it on

The next commit that's pushed to the repo should trigger a build.

## Running LeadConduit Locally

* before npm-publishing, you can hack it locally using `npm link`
* in the new integration directory (make sure `package.json` has the right name info), run `npm link`
* in `leadconduit-integrations`, run `npm link @activeprospect/leadconduit-whatever`
* in the local handler & API , npm link in `leadconduit-integrations`

_todo: add full details, incl. `leadconduit-deploy`_

## Version Numbers

Module version numbers follow [semver guidelines](http://semver.org/), with "major.minor.patch" form. Our guidelines are similar to general usage, but choosing what level to increment on a release can be subjective. Make your best call, or ask a teammate for a second opinion if you're not sure.

- the **major** version is incremented whenever a breaking or incompatible change is made. We do not typically follow the guideline that production-ready code is promoted to "1.x.x"; it's common to see stable modules with "0.x.x" (even "0.0.x") in use. 
- the **minor** version is incremented when new functionality is added that isn't incompatible or breaking. 
- the **patch** version is incremented when a bug is fixed or trivial improvement made. 

## Cutting a Release with `cut-release`

Creating a new integration release, major or minor, is done with the command-line tool `cut-release`. This ensures all changes are committed and branches are correct, prompts for how to update the version of the module (per [semver guidelines](http://semver.org/)), tags the git repo, and publishes the module to npm. See the [readme](https://github.com/activeprospect/cut-release) for more details on installing and using it. 

Note that as with any `npm publish`, _everything_ in your local module directory will be published. Be sure there aren't temporary files, test data, API keys, or anything else that shouldn't be included in the published module.

You'll need to be logged in to npm as `activeprospect` (see Development Guide) for this to work.

## Deploying a New or Updated Integration

Once a new or updated integration is published to npmjs.com, it's ready to be deployed. Integrations are made available in LeadConduit via the dependencies listed in the [`package.json` of the `leadconduit-integrations` module](https://github.com/activeprospect/leadconduit-integrations/blob/master/package.json). If your updated module satisfies the version specified there, then no changes are necessary before starting the deploy. 

However, if this is a new integration or it _doesn't_ satisfy the semver expression, then the dependencies must be updated. 

For a new integration, add it to the list, in alphabetical order, with the semver pattern `~0.0.1`. For an updated integration, modify the semver to match as appropriate.

In either case, the integrations module itself now needs to be updated and released, too. Make the above changes on a branch, create a PR, have it reviewed, etc., through to `cut-release` (new integrations are usually treated as an increment to the "minor" version of `leadconduit-integrations`).

### Deploying on Staging 

In nearly all cases, we deploy new and updated integrations to the "staging" LeadConduit instance first, so that you can verify the functionality, and so it can be acceptance-tested by others. Though production updates and releases are announced in the `#incidents` channel, that is not necessary for changes in staging.

This can be done by anyone on the development team, using the commands below in the `#leadconduit` channel in the ActiveProspect Slack. Prior to running this, look for a green dot next to the "staging1" bot in that channel. You may want to run `staging ping` to make sure it's responsive (it should respond, "pong!"). 

In the easier case, where `leadconduit-integrations` didn't have to be changed, you can tell the bot to just update that single integration by running this command (for a private package called "whatever"):

```
staging leadconduit update @activeprospect/leadconduit-whatever
```

Or, for a public package named "whatever", you can save some keystrokes:

```
staging leadconduit update whatever
```

After a moment, it should respond with a message that the integration was updated, listing the new version number as confirmation. Since staging isn't heavily used, and it's unlikely that changes to any particular integration will bother anyone, you can run an update there whenever you want.

However, for a new or significantly updated integration, which required `leadconduit-integrations` to be updated, the entire application has to be deployed. In this case, you should ask (in the `#leadconduit` Slack channel) if a full deploy to staging is okay for everyone. Usually it is, but if a release candidate of the app is being tested there, your deploy would replace it with "master".

Once you're ready, the command is simple:

```
staging leadconduit deploy
```

### Deploying on Production 

The process is similar for production deploys, but of course must be handled with greater care so that live lead-processing isn't affected. Therefore, though the commands are virtually the same (except specifying "production" instead of "staging"), not all developers have permission to issue the production deploy commands. When your integration is ready to go to production, ask a senior developer to deploy it.

As of this writing, there are two production servers, which can also be addressed separately by the deploy directives: `app3` and `app4`. 

### Rolling back a deploy 

The deploy commands can also be used to deploy older versions, i.e., to roll back a release that has a serious bug. This is done by adding the version number to the end of the command, like this:

```
staging leadconduit update @activeprospect/leadconduit-whatever --version=0.0.6
```

### Additional Setup for New Integrations

#### Entity Added or Updated

Integrations have corresponding records in the `entities` database collection. See the "Managing Entity Records" section below.

#### Environment Variables

If a module requires a new or updated environment variable (i.e., has exported the `envVariables` array), those are provided by the application config files `/etc/init/leadconduit-api.conf` and `/etc/init/leadconduit-handler.conf`. A senior developer or administrator can get those files updated for you. 

#### SSO Billing Information 

For integrations that will be resold by ActiveProspect – that is, integrations that set the `billable` attribute – the pricing details for that service must be configured in SSO before the integration is in use by customers. See [this SSO config file](https://github.com/activeprospect/sso/blob/master/config/products.yml), and contact an SSO developer for help.

#### User Interface Changes 

New integrations, especially those that are resold by ActiveProspect, may also need to have description and pricing information added to the LeadConduit UI. See [this client source file](https://github.com/activeprospect/leadconduit-client/blob/master/public/app/views/flows/edit/create/resoldServices.js), and contact a LeadConduit UI developer for help.

## Managing Entity Records

Enhancement integrations (_not_ recipients) have corresponding records in the `entities` database collection. Here's how to query, update, and create those.

Some examples presume installation of [jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/). You'll also need your LeadConduit superuser API key. Use the browser dev-tools to find this (in Chrome, use the "Network" view, while logged in to LeadConduit in the appropriate environment; the `user` response JSON will include `api_key`). This is shown below as the environment variable `AP_API`; if you run `export AP_API=your_super_user_api_key` to set that, you'll be able to copy & paste these examples.

Note that changes to production are reflected in snapshots that happen every hour, on the hour. Those snapshots are then used to re-seed staging on full deploy.

#### Get an Existing Entity Record by Name

The following `jq` query uses the regular expression `"^briteverify"` to match any name beginning with that name (the `"i"` option ignores case). This is useful because the names of entities isn't always precise. After you run this, you may need to weed through which ones are accounts, or other endpoints, etc.

```
$ curl -X GET -uX:$AP_API -H 'Accept: application/json' https://next.leadconduit.com/entities | jq 'map(select(.name | match("^briteverify"; "i")))'
{
  "id": "535e9f8c9414932925b00001",
  "name": "BriteVerify",
  "source": null,
  "recipient": "enhancement",
  "logo_url": "https://s3.amazonaws.com/integration-logos/briteverify.png",
  "module_ids": [
    "leadconduit-briteverify.outbound.email",
    "leadconduit-briteverify.outbound.name_verify"
  ],
  "website": "http://www.briteverify.com",
  "standard": true
}
```

#### Get an Existing Entity Record by ID

If you already have the id, as you might from a previous query like the one above, you can also query that directly.

```
curl -X GET -uX:$AP_API -H 'Accept: application/json' https://next.leadconduit.com/entities/535e9f8c9414932925b00001 | jq '.'
{
  "id": "535e9f8c9414932925b00001",
  "name": "BriteVerify",
  "source": null,
  "recipient": "enhancement",
  "logo_url": "https://s3.amazonaws.com/integration-logos/briteverify.png",
  "module_ids": [
    "leadconduit-briteverify.outbound.email",
    "leadconduit-briteverify.outbound.name_verify"
  ],
  "website": "http://www.briteverify.com",
  "standard": true
}
```

#### Update an Existing Entity Record

You could do this, for example, if you need to add a new endpoint to an existing integration.

First, `GET` the existing data, as shown above. You could redirect it to a file by adding this to the end of the command: ``> entity.json``. Then that file can be edited as needed (e.g., to add another entry to the `module_ids` array). Using the `"id"` value from that `GET`, you can now `PUT` to update the record:

```
curl -X PUT -uX:$AP_API -H 'Accept: application/json' -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d@entity.json https://next.leadconduit.com/entities/ID_VALUE_FROM_JSON | jq '.'
```

On success, the API will return the updated JSON for the entity record.

#### To Create a New Entity

Similar to the "update" above, start with a JSON file. Don't include an `"id"`; that will be assigned by the database on insert. Here's a template:

```
{
  "name": "Panopticon",
  "source": null,
  "recipient": "enhancement",
  "logo_url": "https://s3.amazonaws.com/integration-logos/panopticon.png",
  "module_ids": [
    "leadconduit-panopticon.outbound.everything"
  ],
  "standard": true
}
```

Values:

- for `source` (per [the schema](https://github.com/activeprospect/leadconduit-schema/blob/master/schema.json#L399)): "form", "seller", "other", or `null`
- for `recipient` (per [the schema](https://github.com/activeprospect/leadconduit-schema/blob/master/schema.json#L400)): "buyer", "crm", "analytics", "enhancement", "esp", "other", or `null`
- for `standard`: always set to `true` for service-specific integrations that we develop

```
curl -X POST -uX:$AP_API -H 'Accept: application/json' -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d@entity.json https://next.leadconduit.com/entities ; echo
```


## Managing Release Candidates

Working with release candidate code – i.e., a new version that shouldn't be included in a production deploy yet – is kind of a pain in the neck, so we don't usually bother if we don't have to. If you do have to, here's roughly how to do it:

* in the integration being updated:
    * update integration version to a level that _won’t_ be picked up by what’s specified in `leadconduit-integrations`’s current production `package.json`
    * publish it as usual
    * since the version is higher than `leadconduit-integrations` is looking for, regular deploys won’t pick up this new update
    * _example: `leadconduit-integrations` listed “leadconduit-whatever”: “^1.0.0”. That would get any 1.x.x, so the integration has to update to “2.0.0” to not match_
* in `leadconduit-integrations`:
    * ensure the integration dependency version for the "whatever" integration will include that new version (e.g., "^2.0.0")
    * increment the version of this module (`leadconduit-integrations` itself) so that it won’t be picked up by what’s in production for `leadconduit-api`; publish as usual
    * _example: to now pick up the new 2.0.0 version of the `leadconduit-whatever` integration, that dependency could be listed as “^2.0.0” here. The `leadconduit-integrations` module itself was “1.1.3”, suppose `leadconduit-api` specifies “~1.1.0”; then this has to update to “1.2.0”._
*  in `leadconduit-api`:
    * ensure the version of the `leadconduit-integrations` dependency listed here will include new version set above
    *  increment the version of this module (`leadconduit-api` itself), with an “-rc.1” suffix
    *  commit & push, wait for Travis, cut-release as usual
    *  _example: in the `leadconduit-api` package, the `leadconduit-integrations` dependency, previously “~1.1.0”, gets bumped to “~1.2.0” If this package’s own version were “1.8.3”, it would now become, say, “1.8.4-rc.1”._
* deploy to staging, specifying that “-rc.1” version
    * if anyone does a production deploy in the meantime, the “-rc.x” versions won’t be picked up as “latest”, because semver omits those versions from consideration.
    * _example: `staging leadconduit deploy --version=1.8.4-rc.1`_
* iterate & test as needed, incrementing the integration's version number along the way
    * due to how the semver is set up, you probably won't need to cut a new release-candidate version of the parent API module during. Subsequent re-installations of "rc.1" will pick up the latest modules that match the semver.
    * _example: a bug is found in the "whatever" integration, it it's fixed and republished as “2.0.1”. It can now be re-deployed with the whole app (with `--version=1.8.4-rc.1`) or with the simpler `staging leadconduit update` format (see above for details on deploying just an integration update)_
* after everything looks good and it's ready publish for real:
    * remove the “-rc.1” from the `api` module and deploy as normal 


##  Reviewing 3rd-party Code 

In addition to the usual style and logic guidelines (see Development Guide), some of the things to watch for when reviewing code not written in-house, or by developers who are unfamiliar integrations development:

* check for any kind of infinite loop or unending recursive calls
* ensure there are no synchronous node calls (e.g., `fs.readSync()`)
* ensure no sensitive data (API keys, etc.) is hardcoded anywhere in code
* make sure `billable` is set when needed
* ensure any sensitive data is "masked" as appropriate
* examine dependencies used, watching out for new or unusual ones


## Transferring 3rd-party Code

If an external or third-party developer has created a module which they're willing to transfer to ActiveProspect for ongoing ownership and maintenance, here's an abbreviated list of steps:

1. invite an owner of the original repo to the [temp_admin team](https://github.com/orgs/activeprospect/teams/temp_admin)
2. owner goes into repo settings, clicks “transfer this repo” button, confirms with repo and our org name
3. remove that user from the `temp_admin` team

