# 2. Key Concepts 

## Fields - Standard and Custom

Every lead can be thought of as a collection of fields. LeadConduit has a large – and growing – number of “standard” fields. These are predefined fields, with a meaningful name and a particular type. The full list is available in the LeadConduit UI at 
[https://next.leadconduit.com/fields](https://next.leadconduit.com/fields), but examples include: 

* `email` - a field for email address, of `email` type
* `postal_code` - a field for postal code (aka ZIP), of `postal_code` type
* `dob` - a field for date-of-birth, of `date` type
* `age` - a field for a person’s age, of `range` type
* `company.name` - a field for the name of a _company_ (not a person), of `string` type
* `mortgage.loan.insurance_fee` - a field for “the application fee required by a private mortgage insurance company”, of `number` type

There are also custom fields, which any customer may create, name, and use however they wish within their account. But we will be developing reusable integrations that can be used in any account, so we will only ever use standard fields. When necessary standard fields don’t exist, they will need to be created by a LeadConduit super-administrator (this would only be necessary when working on inbound integrations).

## Field Types 

All fields have a **type**. The default type is often `string`, but other types exist that provide a richer set of components. These are sometimes called “rich types”.

For example, many of the rich types listed below have a boolean `valid` attribute, which represents whether the data format is valid or not. If a `phone`-type field were given the value “do not call me”, it would not be valid.

* boolean
* credential
* date
* email
* gender
* number
* phone
* postal_code
* range
* ssl
* time

Here’s a full example of JSON representing a valid `phone`-type field:

```
{
  "prefix": "1",
  "raw": "5125551212",
  "area": "512",
  "exchange": "555",
  "line": "1212",
  "number": "5551212",
  "extension": null,
  "country_code": "US",
  "is_tollfree": false,
  "type": null,
  "valid": true
}
```

And here is an example of an _invalid_ `phone`-type field: 

```
{
  "raw": "do not call me",
  "valid": false
}
```

See also: full field documentation in the [LeadConduit reference](http://docs.activeprospect.com/leadconduit/reference.html).


## Inbound vs. Outbound Integrations 

As described so far, LeadConduit has many standardized internal fields to represent attributes on leads. Let’s consider the field for storing a lead’s first name (e.g., "Juan" or "Esther") as an example. In LeadConduit, that data belongs in the standard field  `first_name`. But a lead vendor posting the lead _to_ LeadConduit may use a different name to collect first-name on their webform, say, `fname`. Meanwhile, the [CRM](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Customer_relationship_management) system receiving the lead _from_ LeadConduit may call the first-name field something else still, perhaps `name_1`.

The format of lead data may be inconsistent, as well. Our same hypothetical lead vendor may collect phone numbers on their webform with parentheses around the area code and dashes separating the line and exchange: `(512) 555-1212`. But it could be that the buyer's CRM system expects that data to be exactly 10 numeric digits: `5125551212`.

A lot of the value that LeadConduit provides is in solving these kinds of incompatibilities for our customers. And a lot of the work that makes that happen is in integrations. 

As mentioned previously, there are two types of integrations: **inbound**, to process data posted into LeadConduit, and **outbound**, which processes how data is sent out of LeadConduit. 

An inbound integration has three main jobs: it receives an incoming **request**, it parses that request and creates a **lead** with the parsed data, and it formulates the **response** that is given back to the submitter. 

An outbound integration also has three main jobs: it **validates** that the minimum required data it needs is available, it formulates the outgoing **request**, and it parses the **response** it receives, appending data to the lead as appropriate.

## Vars, Appended Data, and “The Snowball”

As a lead progresses through a flow, it accumulates data from each step. We sometimes call this "the snowball", because it's like a snowball rolling down a snowy hill, growing larger and larger as more snow sticks to it. In the code, this 'snowball' is contained in a variable conventionally named `vars`.  

We’ll see a lot more of `vars`, but in this JavaScript object, the originally submitted data is always stored under the key `lead`: `vars.lead.email`, `vars.lead.first_name`, etc. There is also some metadata that is available: `vars.submission.timestamp`, `vars.flow.id`, etc. And as each recipient step is run, that step’s integration adds more data, namespaced under its own key. For example, the TrustedForm integration adds data-points such as `vars.trustedform.outcome` and `vars.trustedform.user_agent`.

## Mapping Data

A key part of an integration’s interface is what data it provides (for an inbound integration) or accepts (for an outbound integration). We try to define the interface for integrations to reduce manual setup by LeadConduit users, but some setup is nearly always needed. Full control of what data comes out of (or goes into) an integration is accomplished by the ability to “map” that data.

### Source Mapping

On the inbound side, mapping typically only applies with the LeadConduit Standard inbound integration, which provides access to all the parameters in the lead’s HTTP POST body. Given those, it’s possible to “map” them to the LeadConduit standard fields. From our example earlier, where a webform is capturing first-name as `fname`, the user could configure the source to map that value to be stored in `first_name`. 

Custom-built inbound integrations, which will be discussed more later, usually do all of that “mapping” within the integration code. For example, incoming leads from Bills.com have a field called `phone_day`, which [the integration](https://github.com/activeprospect/leadconduit-integration-billsdotcom) uses to populate the LeadConduit standard field `lead.phone_1`. So, customers that use that integration don't have to worry about setting up a mapping for that.

### Recipient Mapping

On the outbound side, values can also be mapped for recipient steps. As will be discussed in more detail later, an outbound integration defines what data parameters it accepts, along with metadata hints about those parameters.

Take the TrustedForm Claim integration, for example. It has just one absolutely required parameter: `lead.trustedform_cert_url` (which shows as the more readable “TrustedForm Cert URL” in the UI). Because it is a value that normally exists on the lead from the start – as indicated by the `lead.` prefix – customers setting up the TrustedForm integration don't have to “map” anything. As long as the leads they send through that flow have the `trustedform_cert_url` field, the integration will just work.

That integration also defines other, non-required parameters, like `trustedform.scan_required_text`. If the user opts to use that feature of TrustedForm, they would map a value – probably a hardcoded string, perhaps some disclaimer text they require their vendors to use – in the UI. Once configured, that integration would then receive two values for each lead: the `lead.trustedform_cert_url` value (as before, because it’s on the lead), as well as the `trustedform.scan_required_text` value that had been configured in that flow’s mappings.

Some integrations have parameters that _must_ be configured before they can be used. SuppressionList Query Item, for example, can’t be used without knowing `list_names` (one or more hardcoded values, which would never be on the lead) and `values` (often `lead.email` or `lead.phone_1`, but could be any lead field).

## Step Outcomes 

Each recipient step can result in one of four possible outcomes: “success”, “failure”, “error”, and “skip”. Flow continues to the next step in every case, as only _filter_ steps can halt the lead’s progress through the flow. That said, it’s common to configure a filter step immediately following each recipient step, which could halt processing, for example, if the recipient step’s outcome was something other than “success”.

The outcome of the recipient is explicitly set in the integration, as will be detailed later, by setting the value of an append variable called, of course, `outcome`. The exact cases when these are set may vary from one integration to another, but these are the conceptual meanings.

### Success

Success indicates, at a minimum, that the transaction with the recipient service completed normally and returned a recognized response. This may mean that the record was successfully added to the service’s database, or that data was found for the lead data provided.

### Failure 

Failure indicates that a problem exists, one that would probably still exist if the same transaction were tried again. 

Examples: 

- the data provided already exists in the system’s database (i.e., it’s a duplicate)
- the data provided was rejected by the other system for some reason (e.g., the `postal_code` is one that the recipient isn’t buying leads for)
- no data could be found for the data provided (e.g., a lookup based on `email` found no data)

### Error 

Errors indicate that a processing problem of some kind has occurred. These can sometimes be corrected in a way such that if the same transaction were retried, no error would occur. 

Examples: 

- the recipient service is temporarily not responding (e.g., once the service is back up, the error would not repeat)
- some non-lead-specific data is wrong or missing (e.g., if the service’s API key is wrong, fixing it would stop the error)
- something about the integration’s request is wrong (i.e., a bug (gasp!) in the integration is causing the error)

### Skip

In the case where an outbound integration doesn’t have all the data it requires, it will cause that step to be “skipped”. This behavior is implemented by a function called `validate()`, described in full detail in the Integration API chapter. In this case, no request is even attempted to the recipient, since it could not possibly result in success.

Note that skip outcomes can also occur if the step has "step criteria" configured via the flow UI. For example, a customer could specify that an expensive data-verification service should not be used for leads provided from their own website (with a rule such as, "send to this recipient only if 'Source' is not equal to 'My Website'"). In a situation like that, the handler never invokes the integration in any way.
