# 3. The Integration API

## Module Introduction

A LeadConduit integration is implemented as a Node.js module that conforms to a defined interface for what functionality it exports.

The git repository name should use the prefix `leadconduit-integration-`, followed by a descriptive name for the integration. For example, `leadconduit-integration-trustedform`. 

If you’re working on a proprietary or open-source ActiveProspect integration, that repo will be in the [`activeprospect` Github organization](https://github.com/activeprospect/). (If you’re working on a 3rd-party integration, it can be hosted elsewhere, so long as ActiveProspect reviewers have access to it.)

The module’s `package.json` includes typical boilerplate information, which doesn’t vary much from integration to integration: `name`, `description`, etc. Brand new integrations should start with a `version` number of “0.0.0”, and pull requests should not increment this number; it is incremented during the deploy process.

## `index.js` & Naming

A given integration _module_ may have more than one actual integration in it. It’s rare, but there are even some that contain both inbound and outbound integrations. More typically, an external data provider may provide more than one service or action endpoint. The SuppressionList module, for example, has three integrations: one to query items, one to add items, and one to delete items. These are all listed in the module’s `index.js`: 

```
module.exports = {
  outbound: {
    query_item: require('./lib/query_item'),
    add_item: require('./lib/add_item'),
    delete_item: require('./lib/delete_item')
  }
};
```

The `index.js` file may also optionally export a `name` attribute for the module. In most cases this is unnecessary, as the name is automatically derived from the package name itself.

Similarly, each integration within the module may optionally export a `name` value for that integration's endpoint. If not present, the name is inferred from that integration’s name. For example, the SuppressionList `query_item` integration, with no explicit `name` set, will be show up as “Query Item” in the UI.


## “request and response” vs. “handle”

There are two possible ways to build an outbound integration. One is referred to as "request and response style", the other is "handle style". 

When the service being integrated with is accessed by a single, fairly simple HTTP request, the first, "request and response", is preferred. With this approach, one function (`request()`) is used to create an object that defines how the transaction should be made, and another (`response()`) is given the result of the transaction to parse (see more details below). Meanwhile, the actual HTTP transaction itself is performed by the core LeadConduit application, not the integration module.

Other times, the service being integrated with may be more complex, requiring multiple requests to accomplish a single lead transaction. Or, there may be a 3rd-party library that can be used to perform the transaction. In cases like this the second approach is the way to go: a single `handle()` function is written to formulate the request, execute the HTTP request, and parse the response.

The remainder of this section describes both styles, and how they're defined.

## `request()`

This function takes a single parameter, `vars` (see below), and can access attributes of it as described in the `request.variables()` array (see below). It returns a JavaScript object that details how LeadConduit should make the HTTP call. That includes setting these attributes, as necessary:

- `url` -- this is the full, valid URL of the service to send data to. This often includes data taken from the lead being processed. For example: `https://app.suppressionlist.com/exists/my_customers/hotlead@gmail.com`
- `method` -- the HTTP method to use: “POST”, “GET”, etc.
- `headers` -- an object with standard HTTP header attributes as key-value pairs. For example: `"Accept": "application/json"` 
- `body` -- for POST-type requests, the URL-encoded data being sent. This also frequently includes data from the lead. For example: `reference=123&vendor=Ace%20Leads%2C%20Inc.`
- `timeout` -- the number of seconds to time out after, if needed (the default timeout is 360 seconds)

This JavaScript object is simply returned from `request()`, and then LeadConduit uses it to execute the HTTP transaction as described.

## `response()`

The complement to `request()`, this function takes three parameters: `vars` (see below), `req` (the request object), and `res` (the response object). It returns a JavaScript object that LeadConduit will “append” to the lead. This object includes a few standard attributes, but otherwise is defined by the the `response.variables()` array (see below). 

The standard attributes of the object returned by `response()` are `outcome`, `reason`, and `billable`.

### `outcome`

Outcome can be set to one of "success", "failure", or "error".

The difference between "failure" and "error" is usually between a transaction failing (failure) and a system failing (error). For example, if an integration intended to add a record in a CRM database got back a response indicating that a record is a duplicate, that would be a failure. For a lookup service, if the data being looked-up isn't found, that's typically considered a "failure" as well. "Error", on the other hand, is usually something like the remote system being unreachable, returning an HTTP 500, etc. 

One rule of thumb is that problems that would probably recur on a retry, such as a duplicate record, are “failures”, while those that might not, such as the service being unreachable, are “errors”. However, the details of when to use each outcome are usually specific to each integration.

There is a fourth possible outcome – "skip" – but that value is never explicitly set by an integration. It is only set by the handler process after evaluating flow rules, or when an integration's `validate()` returns a validation error message (see the section on `validate()`, below).

### `reason`

Reason must _always_ be set if the outcome is “failure” or “error”. This information will be seen in the LeadConduit UI, and may also be returned to the original provider of the lead, so the more human-understandable, the better. 

The UI also shows counts of these "reason" messages in reporting views, so making them unique per lead is a bad idea. For example, "user not found" can be shown as happening 200 times yesterday, but if the message is too specific – like "user John Smith not found", "user Jane Doe not found", etc. – then that aggregation isn't possible.

Usually, "error" is when something unexpected happens, so details such as the HTTP status could be included in the `reason`. Knowing that it was a 404 vs. a 500, for example, is helpful when troubleshooting. We also sometimes capture the entire server response; when it's truly an error, that response may not be valid according to that service’s API. For example, a 500 might just return an HTML error page.

### `billable` 

Billable should always be set for integrations that are resold through LeadConduit. That is, if ActiveProspect is paying the service provider, and in turn billing our customers for that service, this value is required. Other integrations that aren’t resold, such as delivery to a CRM, will omit the `billable` attribute.

The value assigned is the number of transactions that the LeadConduit customer will ultimately be billed for. This is usually “0” or “1”, and depends on ActiveProspect’s terms with the service provider. For example, if every Acme lookup should be charged for, regardless of whether a record is found and returned, then this would always be "1" (except for an “error” outcome). Alternatively, if only lookups that successfully return data were charged for, then this would only be "1" on success.

Note that the “0” and “1” here are numeric, not boolean. It’s possible that a single transaction may have a billable value greater than “1”. This occurs, for example, in the TowerData integration, which can be used to request up to sixteen data-points in one transaction. Each data-point successfully returned is added to the `billable` value.

## `request.variables()`

This function returns an array of objects that define the variables that can be used by `request()`. In other words, it describes the input to the integration. This information is also used in the LeadConduit UI, to allow users to set or override these values with mappings.

Each item in the array is a JavaScript object with these attributes:

- `name` -- the name that the variable will be referenced by. For example, `lead.postal_code`, or `list_names`
- `type` -- the type of the variable, such as `string`, `phone`, etc. 
- `required` -- a boolean value indicating whether this variable is required
- `description` -- descriptive text explaining what the variable means, or is used for. Can also include details about default values, as appropriate.

Example: 

```
{ 
   name: 'lead.trustedform_cert_url', 
   type: 'string', 
   required: true, 
   description: 'TrustedForm Certificate URL' 
}
```

The `name`, `required`, and `description` attributes are used to show the user what data can be configured for this integration (`type` is not; with some complex mappings, it would be impossible for the UI to know whether the type were being correctly matched).

If the integration needs to use values from the original lead, those are listed with a name prepended with “`lead.`”. Listing them that way lets the UI ensure those fields are added to the flow when the integration is added.

For example, the BriteVerify integration lists `lead.email` as its only request variable, and when a user adds that service to a flow, the UI adds `email` to the flow (if it isn’t already there), and no additional mapping is needed.

Note that the `required` attribute is used _only_ by the UI. Enforcing that “required” values are present at lead-handling time is solely the job of the `validate()` function (see below). 

Though the `type` value does not affect the UI, it is used by the lead-handler, which creates an instance of the specified type for each variable before invoking `request()` (or `handle()`). 

However, a specific “rich” type (see Key Concepts section on "Field Types") should only be used when it’s really needed; use the `string` type wherever possible. This avoids subtle bugs and unexpected behavior caused by the lead-handler’s automatic typecasting. If the integration needs to check `.valid`, or access other object attributes (e.g., `.area` or `.exchange`), then list it as `type: 'phone'`. Otherwise the integration will ask for a string, and LeadConduit will provide it that way. When a rich type is specified, care must be taken to “stringify” the value as necessary with the `.valueOf()` function.

Using rich types also requires extra care in test code; see details about testing in the Author’s Guide section.

In a “handle style” integration, this function is called `requestVariables()` (since there is no `request` definition to add `.variables()` to), but is otherwise exactly the same.


## `response.variables()`

Similar to `requestVariables()`, this function returns an array of objects that define the variables that can be appended to the lead by the integration. This information is used in the LeadConduit UI, allowing the user to create filters and subsequent mappings with this data. 

There are a few standard variables that are always included: `outcome`, `reason`, and `billable`. See the section about `response()`, above, for more about those.

What fields to include differs from one integration to another. For a CRM delivery, there may be little useful information to append, other than perhaps an ID returned for the new record created there. For lookup services, it may be best to list and append everything returned, or it may make sense to exclude some data, if it’s decided to not be of interest to LeadConduit users. Ideally these decisions are provided in a new integration’s requirements, but arriving at the final list is often an iterative process.

To ensure there aren’t appended-data name conflicts, the integration name should prefix each field name. The three SuppressionList integrations provide a good example: the `query_item` integration lists the variable `query_item.outcome`, not just `outcome`. That ensures that the value is unique relative to the outcomes of the other SuppressionList integrations (`add_item` and `delete_item`). If each one only listed `outcome`, then a filter step in a flow after both a `query_item` and an `add_item` step would only list a single value, named “SuppressionList Outcome”. There would be no way to differentiate the query outcome from the add outcome at that point.

In a “handle style” integration, this function is called `responseVariables()` (since there is no `response` definition to add `.variables()` to), but is otherwise exactly the same.

## `handle()`

As discussed in the section above (“request and response” vs. “handle”), some integrations can’t be built using the “request and response” style just described. One example is when an integration needs to make multiple requests per lead, such as a login request, a data transmission request, and finally a logout request. The `soap` integration in the LeadConduit “Custom” module is one open-source example; the `send` integration in the Email Delivery module is a simpler one, but is visible only by ActiveProspect developers.

Another case for writing a `handle()` function is when there is an existing library that does some of the work for us. The Clearbit integration is an example: it leverages [a Node module provided by that company](https://www.npmjs.com/package/clearbit).

The `handle()` function takes two values: `vars` (see below), and the callback function to invoke when it’s complete. 

The callback function takes two values: an error object, and the JavaScript object to append to the lead (i.e., as defined by `responseVariables()`, with `outcome`, `reason`, etc.).

## `vars`

The main data structure for lead data is conventionally named `vars` in these functions (see also: the Key Concepts section “Vars, Appended Data, and “The Snowball””). 

Integrations never directly add to or change the attributes of the `vars` object (in fact they are given only a copy of `vars`, so if they did change it, those changes would be lost). Instead, the LeadConduit handler manages adding data to it (aka building up “the snowball”), using the objects returned by `response()` and `handle()`, as described in previous sections. 

That leaves the single thing `vars` is used for in integrations: using the data it contains. This nearly always comes from the `lead` attribute, which itself contains all the fields that define the lead being handled (`email`, `first_name`, etc.). In an integration, those are fully referenced as, for example, `vars.lead.email`, `vars.lead.first_name`, etc.

All the lead fields used by the integration should be listed in `request.variables()`, as described previously. This restriction isn’t enforced by the handler, but it's essential. In other words, though it would be possible to use `vars.lead.comments` even if that field weren't listed as a request variable, that would inevitably cause problems for users.

Similarly, it’s technically possible to use data appended by _other_ integrations, such as using `vars.suppressionlist.outcome` (appended data doesn’t get appended under `lead`), but that’s also a bad idea. Doing that would require the user to have set up – and use on every lead – the other integration previously in the flow that this integration is used in. The appropriate way for this to be written is to have a request variable that the end-user can map the correct data to, whether it’s from a previous step or not. In this way, the integration is self-contained and independent of any others.

There are some other metadata values available on `vars`. They’re rarely used by an integration, but here’s an example to illustrate them (with some simple `lead` data, including `email`, a "rich" type):

```
{
  "submission" : {
    "timestamp" : "2016-11-28T21:44:42.699Z"
  },
  "lead" : {
    "id" : "583ca54afd2847153ae89b1b",
    "email" : {
      "normal" : "gina@chavez.biz",
      "raw" : "gina@chavez.biz",
      "user" : "gina",
      "domain" : "chavez.biz",
      "host" : "chavez",
      "tld" : "biz",
      "valid" : true
    },
    "first_name" : "Gina",
    "last_name" : "Chavez"
  },
  "account" : {
    "id" : "53a310fa9d29c9c72100006c",
    "name" : "ActiveProspect, Inc.",
    "sso_id" : "4d9a4c421d011c553e000001"
  },
  "flow" : {
    "id" : "564b6135d3754dcf205eae6f",
    "name" : "Sales Leads"
  },
  "random" : 95,
  "source" : {
    "id" : "53ab1f319d29c9ddf2000045",
    "name" : "AP Site Contact Form"
  },
  "recipient" : {
    "id" : "535e9f8c94149d05b5000002",
    "name" : "TrustedForm"
  }
}
```

## `validate()`

This function is technically optional but defined in nearly all cases. It is invoked prior to the `request()` (or `handle()`) function; its purpose is to ensure that the minimum necessary data is present to bother calling `request()` (or `handle()`) at all. See also: “Step Outcomes, Skip” in Key Concepts.

For example: consider a phone-verification service. If there is no phone data provided, or if what’s provided is not a valid phone number, then there's no point in spending the cost or processing time required to call that service. 

The `validate()` function takes a single parameter, `vars` (see above), and returns either nothing (technically, `undefined`), if the required lead data is present, or a string “skip” message if not. That message will be set as the `reason` text for this integration’s step, so as discussed previously, it should not include lead-specific data (see the “response()” section, above).

This error text should also be consistent with similar errors in other integrations. For example, the standard validate message for a missing email, used in many integrations, is “email must not be blank”.

Note that the `required` attribute on request variables, by itself, does nothing to the behavior of the integration (see “request.variables()” above). However, that metadata should match what variables the `validate()` function checks for. There is no automatic enforcement for these to match; they must be kept in sync by the developer.

Another type of exit is possible from `validate()`, which should be used when required environment variables (see below) are missing: an `Error` object should be thrown. This is treated differently because it’s not an issue with the particular lead being handled, but is a misconfiguration of the LeadConduit handler. This thrown error will alert ActiveProspect personnel to the problem immediately, so that it can be fixed. Examples of this can be found in the TowerData and WhitePages integrations. (Note: throwing an error for missing environment variables is a relatively new convention; you may see older integrations that simply return a string message in this case (you should fix them!).)


## `envVariables`

Sometimes there is key integration data that is static, but should not be hardcoded in the integration itself, such as API keys for resold services. These values should be treated like passwords, and therefore aren’t appropriate to be kept in source code, even in a private Github repo. Instead, they're set in system [environment variables](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Environment_variable) and accessed via `process.env`; an example can be seen in integrations such as BriteVerify, Clearbit, and ZipCodes.com.

When an integration requires a value from the process environment, another item should be exported by the integration: `envVariables`. This is an array of strings, containing the names of any environment variables the integration needs. This is used to ensure that the app isn’t deployed without required environment vars.

When an integration with new environment variables is first deployed (to staging, and separately, to production), these values will have to be configured in the server environment. A member of the LeadConduit development team with server access can set this up for you.

See the section on `validate()` for the best practices on validating that required environment variables are present. 
