# 4. Development Guide

## Getting Started

Tools to help get started are still in development. For now, it's common when building a brand-new integration to find an existing integration that's similar to yours to use as a template. For example, the SuppressionList module includes several integrations, each for a straightforward REST API call.

## Development Environment 

LeadConduit integrations are Node.js modules, typically written in CoffeeScript. To work on them, your development environment will need to include: 

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) - latest 6.x, but note that we use `npm` 2.x, not the newer version included with Node by default
- [CoffeeScript](http://coffeescript.org/) - latest 1.x

Internal ActiveProspect developers also need access to our private accounts at Github.com and npmjs.com; see the Administration Guide.

If you're working on a new integration and you prefer plain JavaScript, you don't have to use CoffeeScript.

## Style Guide 

As with any style guide, consider these conventions as rules of thumb. The consistency that comes from following these will aid in troubleshooting and maintenance across the growing number of integrations on the LeadConduit platform.

The following are not in priority order, but are numbered for reference.

1. general guidelines
  1. Keep code clear, readable, and concise
  2. Names of functions, variables, etc. are camelCased (e.g., `parseCreditRate()`)
  3. Names of lead and mapped parameters are snake_cased (e.g., `vars.credit_rate`)
  5. Use local variables to reduce repetition of long data-structure paths (e.g., `custLoan = vars.lead.customer.loan.information.data`)
  2. Prefer CoffeeScript-style interpolation (`"#{last_name}, #{first_name}"`) over JavaScript-style concatenation (`last_name + ", " + first_name`)
  3. Handle simple logic in the template (e.g., to ensure empty string: `"#{vars.lead.postal_code or ''}"`)
  6. In tests, use nested `describe()` statements to logically organize test cases

2. module review checklist
  1. a freshly cloned repo should be able to have `npm install`, `npm test`, and `npm lint` run successfully with no errors
  2. `package.json` should have correct `name`, `description`, etc.
  3. `package.json` should have no unnecessary packages as `dependencies` or `devDependencies`
  4. `Readme.md` should have correct Travis badge code
  5. `index.js` should list `export` integration names under the `outbound` (or `inbound`) namespace (or else the UI won’t correctly show the endpoint names in dropdowns)
  6. `CHANGELOG.md` should exist and be updated for this change. Reference Github issue numbers if appropriate, and use the planned version number, even though it will not match `package.json` until `cut-release` is run
  
  7. integration source should have:
    4. no unnecessary `require`s
    8. no API keys, etc. hardcoded anywhere source 
    9. no stray, unused “helper” functions
    10. no unnecessary `export`s 
    11. the correct `Accept` header on outbound requests integrations
    12. no custom request variables, only standard
    13. correct descriptions, types, and required flag on all request & response variables
  
  8. integration tests (see below) should:
    15. have a validation test for each required request and `env` variable
    16. have a validation test for when nothing is returned (i.e., no validation errors)
    17. use the `leadconduit-integration.parse()` utility to create typed request variables 
    18. use the `valueOf()` function to stringify rich-typed variables as needed

  9. brand-new integrations should:
    1. include a large, high-quality PNG for the logo (not in the repo, but provided in some way with the initial review)

## Test Coverage

Thorough test coverage is an important aspect of integration development. Testing the various edge-case conditions that are common in working with other systems, and being confident that future changes won't cause a regression in behavior, are part of what make integration modules superior to customers simply using the general-purpose configurable (aka "custom") integrations. PRs with failing or pending tests are never approved.

Refer to test code for existing modules, located in the `spec` subdirectory, to help remind yourself of the kinds of cases to account for.

Tests can be run locally by running `npm test` (or the alias `cake test`) at the command line. 

Our [continuous-integration (CI)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Continuous_integration) process uses [Travis](https://travis-ci.com/). Each git branch should be set up to be automatically built. Within an integration repo, this is controlled by the `.travis.yml` file (note that it begins with a dot, and so may be hidden in some filesystem views), as well as the `scripts.test` value defined in `package.json`.

When adding a brand-new integration, there is a one-time setup to do to configure Travis to run on each commit; see the Administration Guide.

## Linting

A newer part of our standards is running the CoffeeScript [linter](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lint_(software)) on your code. This helps enforce coding styles, described in more detail below. This hasn't yet been added to our CI process, but should be run by authors prior to submitting PRs.

If many changes are suggested by the linter, as may be the case with older integrations, those changes should ideally be kept in a commit that's separate from the "real" (e.g., bug-fix) changes.

To run the linter, simply type `cake lint` in the module's home directory.

## Documentation 

Markdown documentation that describes the functionality of the integration should be included in the `docs` subdirectory. See the Zip-Codes.com integration for an example of the template to be used. Also, see the [integration cakefile](https://github.com/activeprospect/leadconduit-cakefile/) readme for how PDFs can be generated and uploaded to Google Drive.

## Development Cycle

When working on a brand new module, internal ActiveProspect developers will create a repo in the ActiveProspect Github organization. If you're an external developer, you can use whatever git-based source control you like. In either case, start by creating a new repo with just one file on the `master` branch: a `Readme.md` with a single empty line. Then add your new code in another branch, so that the merge PR will show it all as new code. That way, it's easy to comment on and discuss during the PR review process.

0. Create a feature (non-`master`) branch for your changes. If you're not in the ActiveProspect Github organization, fork the repo first as necessary.
1. Make as many commits as you want while you do your work
2. Don't increment the module's version number; that will be done later (new integrations start at "0.0.0")
2. Push your branch to Github when you're ready to have it reviewed
3. Travis should be set up to run this module's tests (see "Test Coverage" above), and all tests should pass before you create a PR
4. Create the PR
    1. use a short but meaningful name
    2. add any further explanation needed (for bug-fixes, reference the issue number)
    3. assign the PR to a single more-senior developer for review. If you're not sure who is able to or has time to review it, ask.
5. Make changes as needed per PR feedback, iterating until the PR is approved
6. Squash your commits as needed, down to semantically useful chunks of work. That may be a single commit, or it may be multiple, per your judgment (see [this blog post](http://eli.thegreenplace.net/2014/02/19/squashing-github-pull-requests-into-a-single-commit) for more information)
7. Merge your PR
8. The next step is to cut a new release of the module, as covered in "Cutting a Release" in the Administration Guide chapter

## Tips, Idioms, & Links

Following are some common things to know, keep in mind, or have handy for further reference.

### Useful references

- LeadConduit API docs: [http://docs.activeprospect.com/](http://docs.activeprospect.com/)
- LeadConduit integration docs: [http://docs.leadconduit.com/](http://docs.leadconduit.com/)
- npm's semantic version calculator: [http://semver.npmjs.com/](http://semver.npmjs.com/)

### Guard against null with '`?.`'

Use CoffeeScript's existential operator to soak up nulls. As [the docs say](http://coffeescript.org/#existential-operator): "The accessor variant of the existential operator `?.` can be used to soak up null references in a chain of properties. Use it instead of the dot accessor `.` in cases where the base value may be null or undefined."

### Send the right types in tests

If you create a `vars` object in your tests, the values will be JSON strings, integers, etc., and not the "rich" LeadConduit types that the integration may get from the handler. Use the type-parsing utility found in the `leadconduit-integration` module to automatically create those rich types as needed, as defined by the integration's request variables array. 

The usage is usually a line like this at the top of your test file: 

```
parser = require('leadconduit-integration').test.types.parser(outbound.requestVariables())
```

That creates a parser function based on your `requestVariables()` (or `request.variables()`, as the case may be). That function takes your test JSON object and replaces any attributes with their rich-type versions: 

```
vars = parser
  lead:
    first_name: 'Alexander'
    last_name: 'Hamilton'
    postal_code: '00123'
```

That yields this object, with a rich `postal_code` value: 

```
{ lead: 
   { first_name: 'Alexander',
     last_name: 'Hamilton',
     postal_code: 
      { [String: '00123']
        raw: '00123',
        country_code: 'US',
        code: '00123',
        zip: '00123',
        four: null,
        valid: true } } }
```

### Look for `leadconduit-integration` functions

The `leadconduit-integration` module is where common functions, like the type-parser just above, should go. Look there for utility code. 

By the same token, if you've written or found functions that _should_ be common, add them there.


### Use CoffeeScript's `for…of` to iterate object properties

It's common in integrations to need to iterate over the attributes of an object, and CoffeeScript provides a handy tool for this: the [`for…of` comprehension](http://coffeescript.org/#loops).

### "Mask" sensitive data 

The full details of all transactions are visible in the LeadConduit UI, but we mask, or obscure, the data that should not be. This happens automatically for some field types, such as `ssn` (for Social Security Numbers) and `credential`. However, sometimes it's necessary for an integration to manually mask data. 

The key to understanding how this works is knowing that the integration's `request()` or `handle()` function is actually executed _twice_ by the handler process: once for real, and a second time in a kind of emulation mode to capture the details for the event record. So, to mask data from being captured in that second run, the integration simply writes over the necessary parts of `vars` _after_ the `request()` function has used them. 

For example, from the ZipCodes.com integration's common `createRequest()`: 

```
  vars.apiKey ?= process.env.ZIPCODES_COM_API_KEY

  req =
    method: 'GET'
    url: "#{url}#{body}key=#{vars.apiKey}"

  vars.apiKey = Array(vars.apiKey.length + 1).join('*')
```

The first time this is run, `vars.apiKey` is not set, so the `?=` CoffeeScript operator assigns it the value from the process environment. After that value is used to formulate the URL, it is replaced with a string of asterisks. 

The second time it's run, `vars.apiKey` will still be that string of asterisks, and so will not be assigned the real API key value. The URL assignment will include those asterisks, and that value will be captured in the permanent record of the event. (Using that wrong value won't cause it to fail, because that second transaction isn't really made.)

To test this, simply invoke `request()` twice, as in this example (also from ZipCodes.com):

```
before ->
  process.env.ZIPCODES_COM_API_KEY = '1234'

it 'should mask the API key', ->
  vars = {}
  req = common.createRequest('query?', 'http://api.zip-codes.com/', vars)
  assert.equal req.url, 'http://api.zip-codes.com/whatever/query?key=1234'

  req = common.createRequest('query?', 'http://api.zip-codes.com/', vars)
  assert.equal req.url, 'http://api.zip-codes.com/whatever/query?key=****'
```

