# 7. Appendix B - Updated Conventions

Over time, we realize or discover new, better ways to do things in integration modules. But because there are so many modules, it's not usually worthwhile to revisit all of them at once to make those changes. Instead, we try to make these changes when we're fixing a bug or adding a feature to a module. The list below are updates that should be made whenever feasible.

## Throw errors for missing environment variables

If a required environment variable is missing, that's a problem that can never be fixed by the user, it can only be fixed by an ActiveProspect developer. That's why the check for such environment variables in the `validate()` function should throw an error, not just return an error message that causes a "skip" outcome.

An example, from the White Pages integration:

```
validate = (vars) ->
  throw new Error 'Missing credentials, contact ActiveProspect support' unless process.env.WHITEPAGES_LEAD_VERIFY_KEY
```

## List environment variables in `envVariables()`

When an integration needs environment variables, they should be declared in an array exported by the integration, as in this example from the ZipCodes.com integration:

```
module.exports =
  envVariables: ['ZIPCODES_COM_API_KEY']
  ...
```

## Cakefile conversion 

Originally each module had its own copy of a full `Cakefile`, approximately 35 lines long. That has been replaced with a separate module: [`leadconduit-cakefile`](https://github.com/activeprospect/leadconduit-cakefile). The `Cakefile` still exists, but should have a single line: 

```
require('leadconduit-cakefile')(task)
```

To make this update (the BatchRobot integration can be referenced as an example): 

1. add an entry for the current version of `leadconduit-cakefile` to the `devDependencies` section of `package.json`. this can be done by running: `npm install -D leadconduit-cakefile`.
2. remove the entry for `mocha` from `devDependencies` (it is included in the `cakefile` module) and delete that module (e.g., `rm -fr node_modules/mocha/`) 
3. replace the contents of `Cakefile` with the line above
4. run `cake test` or `cake build` to verify everything's set up correctly 


## Add CHANGELOG.md

Originally changes were not tracked in a changelog, but now they should be. If there is no `CHANGELOG.md` file in the root directory, add one with content like this: 

```
# Change Log
All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.
This project adheres to [Semantic Versioning](http://semver.org/).

## [0.0.7] - 2016-08-05
### Fixed
- Add this changelog

## [0.0.1] - 2015-06-16
### Added
- Initial version
```

Finding the date of the first published version is interesting, but note that it's not necessary to dig up the history of all past versions. 


## Include `node` as a Travis build version

Originally the versions of Node.js specified in each module's `.travis.yml` included the current known major versions (`4`, `5`, etc.). Travis also provides a way to automatically include the latest version, with the keyword `node`. 

In other words, a module's `.travis.yml` should look like this (the numbers may vary over time, but `node` should always be included): 

```
language: node_js
node_js:
  - 6
  - node
sudo: false
```
